#29: Use sphinx for documentation (#31)
exasol/bucketfs-utils-python: doc/developer_guide/building_documentation.rst

**************************
Building the Documentation
**************************

We are using Sphinx for generating the documentation of this project,
because it is the default documentation tool for Python projects.

> Sphinx supports API generation for Python and with plugins also for other languages.

Reviewer: Is it really API generation? Not "documentation generation of API"?

Author: ```suggestion
Sphinx supports API documentation generation for Python and with plugins also for other languages.
```

> Furthermore, it supports reStructuredText with proper cros-document references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, it supports reStructuredText with proper cross-document references.
```

We using the MyST-Parser to also integrate markdown files into the documentation.

######################################################
Building the Documentation interactivily during coding
######################################################

> We defined several commands in the project.toml in poethepoet
> which allow you to build and view the documentation during coding::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We defined several commands in the project.toml in poethepoet
which allow you to build and view the documentation during coding:
```

Author: reStructuredText Syntax for code blocks

    poetry run poe build-html-doc # Builds the documentation
    poetry run poe open-html-doc # Opens the currently build documentation in the browser
    poetry run poe build-and-open-html-doc # Builds and opens the documentation

> All three commands build use the builded documentation located in/doc/_build/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All three commands build use the builded documentation located in /doc/_build/
```

> which is excluded in gitignore. If you want to build the documentation to other formats than HTML,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which is excluded in gitignore. If you want to build the documentation for other formats than HTML,
```

you find a Makefile in /doc which allows you to run the sphinx build with other goals.

####################################
Building the Documentation in the CI
####################################

> Building the Documentation in the CI is a bit different to what you do during coding,
> because we in also contains the preperations for publishing. At the moment, we publish

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building the Documentation in the CI is a bit different to the steps you can use during coding,
because those steps also contain the preparations for publishing. At the moment, we publish
```

Author: ```suggestion
Building the documentation in the CI is a bit different to the steps you can use during coding,
because it also contain the preparations for publishing. At the moment, we publish
```

the documentation on Github Pages.

To publish it there, we need to build the HTML from the documentation source and commit it.
However, Github Pages expects a specific directory structure to find the HTML.
Our usual directory structure doesn't fit these requirements, so we decided to create
a new Git root commit and initially set github-pages/main branch to this commit.
We then add new commits to this branch to update existing or add new versions of the documentation.

This has the additional benefit, that we don't have automatic commits to the source branch.

> We create for each branch or tag for which we build the documentation in the CI
> we add a directory to the root directory of the github-pages/main branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each branch or tag for which we build the documentation in the CI
we add a directory to the root directory of the github-pages/main branch.
```

With each merge into the main branch the CI updates the documentation for the main branch in github-pages/main.
For feature branches the CI checks this deployment process by creating a branch github-pages/<feature-branch-name>.
but it removes the branch directly after pushing it. However, you can run this also locally for testing purposes or
checking the branch with Github Pages in a fork of the main repostory.
The scripts which are responsible for the deployment are::

    deploy-to-github-pages-current # creates or updates github-pages/<current-branch-name>
    deploy-to-github-pages-main.sh # only applicable for the main branch and creates or updates github-pages/main

> We again a few shortcuts defined in our project.toml for poethepoet::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also provide a few shortcuts defined in our project.toml for poethepoet::
```
